Hello, I'm Peter Fullerton, the chair of Friends of Cardiff reservoirs, and I'm sitting here
on a glorious, still sunny morning in November, interviewing Anne Barrett, who used to run
the sailing school here.
So, how did you first get involved with the reservoir and the sailing school?
I first got involved at the reservoir probably around 1979, where a friend of mine had done
some sailing and said, why don't you come up and just come out on the water?
So I did, and I have to admit, firstly, I really didn't like it.
I came from a sports background.
I could do sports.
Sailing was one of these things.
Oh, you have to learn things.
But I persevered with some encouragement from the current principal at the time, a gentleman
called Jim Dunn and the then chief instructor, Francis Hurley, and basically did all my qualifications,
got involved with volunteering, and then sadly Jim Dunn, he died.
Francis Hurley became the principal, and within quite a few, well, within a few years, I became
the chief instructor.
So basically, I learned at Lanishen, I volunteered at Lanishen, I then worked at Lanishen, and
then in the end, I finally became the principal of Lanishen, and I then retired from the sport
Only a couple of years before then, the sailing centre moved to Cardiff Bay.
So how long were you here to recharge to the sailing centre?
I was here in all capacities for cool, 99, 2009, 35 years in all capacities.
I came back until the centre moved in 2010.
I on and off remained in contact with many people who learned to sail here, who became
friends, and also in contact with people who learned to sail and then went on to bigger
and better things around the world.
And it's quite interesting that a lot of sailors who started here are still involved in the
sport in various capacities, well, every corner of the world, really.
Any in particular you remember that went through the school?
I think it's very difficult.
There's been a lot of children who learned when they were little, in little oppies, who've
gone on to great things.
Yes, everyone mentions Hannah Mills, who I'm still in contact with and has done great things,
double Olympic champion, world champion, flag bearer for Team GB at Tokyo, recently skipper
of the Athena Pathway America's Cup boat in the first ever women's America's Cup.
But there are a lot of other people.
Hannah is just the name that people possibly recognise.
But a lot of people are working in the business around the world and making a difference from
working on super yachts to running sailing schools in Greece to becoming quite high profile
environmentalists.
Emily Penn years ago was one of the first to introduce or make awareness of microplastics.
A guy called Rob Hobson is now quite a high profile nutritionalist.
So there are so many really that I admire for, I feel privileged that I taught them
and for the people that they've become, many are in all sorts of quite high ranking jobs
around the world.
And I've said that learning to sail and becoming instructors played a part in allowing them
to pursue totally different careers.
And could you describe to me what a sort of typical day for you was like when you were
running the sailing school?
Because there was lots of boats here.
You meet people here who have been through the sailing school and they remember it quite
fondly.
But for you, what was a day like when you were running the school?
Every day was slightly different.
But if you look at, I don't know, let's pick a random day in July.
Still in term time, I would start work probably about 7.30, just walk around the site.
Again, I was very privileged at 7.30 in the morning.
I'm the only one here apart from maybe the occasional kingfisher and the swans who regularly
visited on the little pond we had for our environmental studies group.
So I would come in at 7.30, the staff would come in at 8.30.
All the boats would be prepared then for whatever classes would come up.
Invariably in term time, that would be schools groups.
We taught a lot of primary schools.
We ran an oppie roadshow program which taught 1500 children in a month, two hour sessions,
learning to rig oppies, learn about knots, water safety, have a session on the water.
So you would do that for most of the day.
Then there'd be a slight break and then evening classes would come in depending on what day
of the week it was.
There would be adult courses running.
The day would then sail in toppers, lasers, wayfarers.
And that would then run until nine.
So my average day would be a 7.30 till about quarter past nine.
And then if it was an adult group, you have to do forced to do the social thing of go
to the pub for a few beers and discuss in great detail the session on the water.
So it was just a debrief session.
We ran children's groups, which was mainly in the days and on Saturdays and Sundays.
Then they were fantastically successful.
And my favorite session was a Saturday morning where kids had learned to sail and then they
just wanted to improve.
And we were lucky that we had a big, big fleet of boats that really could cater for from
eight year olds to senior adults.
Although we didn't have specifically disabled boats, we jury rigged up something and make
it work.
And that was one of the best things that we ever did here was that we were very, very
inclusive before it became the thing to do and tick a box.
We never tick boxes.
We wanted to be totally inclusive.
If you wanted to get on the water by hook or by crook and sometimes by breaking rules,
we got you out there.
It was one of the greatest things and one of my proudest things to have achieved, to
make it as accessible as it could.
And that was probably at one point we were teaching almost every school in Cardiff at
one point in my tenure here came to sail at Anshan.
When you see it now, it's open to the public and some water sport activities happening.
How do you feel about the reservoir now coming back?
It's very difficult.
It was a difficult time when the sailing centre moved to the bay.
For me, Anshan, its location, the water quality was perfect.
When coming back to the reservoir now, it's open to the public.
What are your feelings about it now?
It's really difficult.
Obviously, it was a sad time when the sailing centre had to move to Cardiff Bay because
of the possibility of development.
And there's no doubt it's still in my mind, clinician, is one of the best locations certainly
anywhere in Wales for people to come and live water sports.
It's twofold.
The site has been developed remarkably well.
I could never have imagined having worked for all those years in a couple of pre-First
World War huts with no money to see the facilities that are available now.
I think it's magnificent to be able to walk around there if you want to get a cup of coffee.
So the facilities are absolutely fabulous.
I think if I look at it with my principal hat on, then I think there's a lot of work
to be done as far as making it a highly successful water sports facility.
So there's a lot of work, I think, to be done there to make it anywhere near the centre
that it was when I was there.
Blowing my own trumpet a little bit, at one time we were undoubtedly the most successful
sailing centre anywhere in the country, and that's the UK.
No one could compete with what we were doing, the numbers that we had in attendance and
the success rate.
And that doesn't necessarily mean Olympic success.
That's a one-off.
That's luck and down to the individual, not down to the centre.
So I think if they work hard at it, then it could be something special, but I think
there's a long way to go.
But as someone who comes and walks, it's brilliant.
That's great.
Well, thank you very much.
I'm pleased to be sharing this.
My pleasure.
Thank you.